---
layout: post
title: 4 Steps To Quitting Porn
date: 2015-12-02T00:00:00.000Z
comments: true
thumbnail: /img/posts/porn-addiction.jpg
excerpt: "So this basically outlines the plan I used to ditch pornography. Most of the literature on the internet gives you all type of soul searching and inner healing advice centered around figuring out why you watch porn, what you’re missing, finding God and all types of other shit\_not relevant to actually kicking the habit. You’re not going to tell a crackhead to do some soul searching, figure what they’re getting from smoking crack and why they need crack to fill that void and tell them to do ten hail mary’s. No, you just want to get the crackhead off the rock as quickly as possible."
recommendations: false
recommendations-heading:
recommendation-first-link:
recommendation-first-image:
recommendation-second-link:
recommendation-second-image:
recommendation-third-link:
recommendation-third-image:
---


So this basically outlines the plan I used to ditch pornography. Most of the literature on the internet gives you all type of soul searching and inner healing advice centered around figuring out why you watch porn, what you’re missing, finding God and all types of other shit not relevant to actually kicking the habit. You’re not going to tell a crackhead to do some soul searching, figure what they’re getting from smoking crack and why they need crack to fill that void and tell them to do ten hail mary’s. No, you just want to get the crackhead off the rock as quickly as possible.

That’s not to say that eventually you should do some of that emotional and spiritual work, but only if you feel like it really might help. Why people enjoy porn is really simple has nothing to do with any type of emotional or spiritual deficiencies. Orgasms feel good and they are the result of giving into the most powerful and important drive on the planet; the need to procreate. The human mind, considering its complexity, has a surprisingly difficult time distinguishing between real and imagined events in terms of it’s physiological responses. Porn is fun to watch because it’s arousing and you get to have an orgasm. Later, rinse, repeat.

Nothing in that last paragraph suggest that it’s a good or bad process. You can do the experiments yourself and decided if you experience any of the&nbsp;[routinely touted benefits](https://boldanddetermined.com/10-reasons-to-stop-using-internet-porn/)&nbsp;of giving up porn for yourself, but in the end, I don’t have any qualm against porn and if you want to jerk off to the screen until your hearts content, go for it. All I will say is that there are consequences to every action and if you found this article, then you’ve probably discovered them and you want a way out. With that said, here is the personal action plan I put into use to stop watching porn.

1. **Delete your browsing history.**&nbsp;This is one of those popular tips dealing with porn addiction that actually has some merit. Porn sites employ some clever little tricks to keep you coming back. One of them is making sure that the moment you type “www” in your browser, the first cache site that shows up is almost always a porn site. Aside from giving your friends a chance to make fun of you every time they use your computer to search for something, it cleverly puts the idea in your mind to revisit the porn sites instead of what you were actually going to do. Even if you have a pressing task that must be tended to, your returning curiosity will get the best of you. The only way around this is to delete your browser history so that every time you look something up, it will be clean and porn free in your history.
2. **Don’t Touch Your Dick.**&nbsp;Except for necessary functions. There are only 3 times a man has to touch his piece: Cleaning, urinating, and jerking off. You have to do the first two and in theory you should be able to do the last one without porn. Our goal isn’t to have you live a life of celibacy where you don’t even get yourself off. We’re just trying to get you off needing porn to do it. Men have been polishing the pole for hundreds of years without the aid of porn. Modern man has gotten to a point where not only does he have to watch porn to jerk off, sometimes hes not even in the mood to jerk off but after watching some porn, he ends up rubbing one out. It’s created a weird pavlovian effect where touching your piece outside of showering or pissing makes you want to watch porn. Lay off of touching your dick as much as possible for non essential functions. This will also have the side effect of making actual sex even better.
3. **Get Physical. Get Away From The Computer.&nbsp;**I write this on the assumption that you ingest all of your porn through a computer with an internet connect. If for some reason you are jerking off to feature length films and magazine spreads, then count yourself lucky that you are not amongst the many that discovered any number of free porno tube sites. The true pornheads reading this know exactly which ones I’m speaking of but you, Mr. Anachronism, do not. Porn addiction is just like any other drug addiction in that part of what you are addicted to is the ritual. Crackheads don’t just get addicted to feeling that crack-cocaine induces but they also become addicted to the stuffing of the pipe, the lighting of the pipe and the passing of the pipe. With that said, getting off of crack is probably easier than getting off of porn because you don’t HAVE to ever touch a crack pipe. However, the modern human being almost certainly has to use a computer (not you Mr. Anachronism. You probably are reading this on a typewriter somehow). This creates a ritual. You sit down fully intending to work on something into the wee hours of the morning. You may have forgotten that you watch porn multiple times nightly on your computer but your body hasn’t. You’ll get the urge and you’ll be all over it. What works best for me is doing some good old fashioned physical activity at those times. Go for a run, lift some weights, stretch, whatever. The point is that you burn off some energy, get moving and get from in front of the computer. You will return to the computer in a refreshed state of mind and less interested in porn. This also has the side benefit of getting you in shape and helping you with step 4.
4. **Go Meet Some Women.** And then fuck a few of them. Actually, do whatever you want with them that is safe and consensual. It need not even be sexual, though I highly recommended some type of intimate contact in your life to be successful with this. A lot of advice or reasoning given on kicking porn says that watching porn makes you value interactions with women less. By this reasoning, not watching porn will put you out there and make you want to interact with more women. This is not bad advice if your goal is simply to have better and more successful interactions with women. My problem with this route, in this order, is two fold. One, this is advice for doing better with women that just happens to have getting off of a porn as a temporary benefit. The goal is to drop porn. If you get more girls out of it, great, but that’s not my concern. Two, this is like using a band aid to treat the flu. In my opinion, the problem of not meeting women and being addicted to porn are completely unrelated. I’ve met plenty of porn heads who get laid. I’ve met some that don’t. Porn has never been an actual substitute for getting laid. It’s kinda like using aspartame in place of brown sugar. Not the same thing but both sweet. However the difference between porn heads who do get laid and those that don’t is that the ones who do get laid seem to be able to shut the switch off on porn easily and for much longer periods of time. If they actually desired to quit porn, they probably could do it on the strength of substituting actual vagina in it’s place. This is why I think its important to meet women as a means to getting off of porn and not the other way around. It makes the transition to a pornless state MUCH easier if you have something sweet instead of going to nothing at all.


This is all you have to do if you want to get off porn, but it falls under the “simple but not easy” category. I want to stress again that I am intentionally avoiding the argument of whether you should or shouldn’t watch it, whats good or bad or anything of that sort. If you have an interest in getting off of porn, these four things should do the job and if you stick to this you can stay porn-free for as long as possible. Just remember, the first 3 days are the hardest. After that, you’d be surprised how much easier it gets.