---
layout: post
title: How To Be Competitive
date: 2015-11-07T00:00:00.000Z
comments: true
thumbnail: /img/posts/competitive2.jpg
excerpt: 'Most people think they’re competitive but they aren’t. They just like to win. Everyone likes to win. A true competitor is a rare breed. Enjoying the feeling of crossing the finish line first doesn’t make you competitive, but there is a lot of shit that can happen during the race that will ultimately determine if your actually a competitor. Being a winner doesn’t make you a competitor but being a competitor will eventually make you winner. Don’t worry if you aren’t winning as much as you’d like because I’ve got the medicine. This list can be applied to anything in which you compete. Follow this list, and you can win anywhere.'
recommendations: false
recommendations-heading:
recommendation-first-link:
recommendation-first-image:
recommendation-second-link:
recommendation-second-image:
recommendation-third-link:
recommendation-third-image:
---


Most people think they’re competitive but they aren’t. They just like to win. Everyone likes to win. A true competitor is a rare breed. Enjoying the feeling of crossing the finish line first doesn’t make you competitive, but there is a lot of shit that can happen during the race that will ultimately determine if your actually a competitor. Being a winner doesn’t make you a competitor but being a competitor will eventually make you winner. Don’t worry if you aren’t winning as much as you’d like because I’ve got the medicine. This list can be applied to anything in which you compete. Follow this list, and you can win anywhere.

1. Always gives 110 percent. This is the most telling trait of someone that likes to compete instead of just win. A winner just wants to come in first. A competitor wants to test his limits. This doesn’t matter if their ahead of the pack or they are dead last. The most competitive thing I’ve ever seen in sports was the 2007 NFL season where the New England Patriots went undefeated. It wasn’t just winning all the games that made it competitive; whether they were ahead 28 or behind, they played with a fire the league has never seen. There was no pulling of the quarterback because they were ahead. It was 110 percent the whole time.
2. Compare yourself to your old self. To be competitive you have to come to grips with a simple truth:&nbsp;**you are only ever competing against yourself**. Outsiders compare you to other people because that’s their base of reference, but you can only be the best version of yourself. Everyone is a beginner at some point and there is a path to go before you have mastery and greatness. It’s useless to compare your position on the path to someone elses because they can’t make you better or worse. Only you can. Competitive people know that at the end of the day, improving their own abilities is all that matters. If their best level is world class, so be it. If not, they know that they gave their all.
3. Competitive people don’t mind a righteous loss. If you manage to win against a truly competitive person, they don’t feel a certain way about it. The loss mentally eats them up, but only in so far as it they think about how their strategy and execution failed. Emotionally, it’s not the terrible heartbreak it is for non competitive people. This is because a competitor is focused on the process.&nbsp;**They want to win, but they are more concerned with being better**. Since they aren’t focused on the outcome of winning, they aren’t as hurt if they take an L while giving their best. On the flip side, competitive people are highly critical of themselves if they win and they know they didn’t perform well.
4. Competitive people never make excuses. Competitors never give excuses why they lost. If a competitive person loses, the only thing you hear them talk about is how they have to perform better. No matter what the situation is they take complete responsibility for the loss.
5. Competitive people give credit where credit is due. When competitors win, they thank everyone but themselves. Everyone from God, to their coaches, to the people that built the arena and their parents. The competitor takes no credit for himself because he doesn’t need it.&nbsp;**Being competitive is the greatest thrill a person can experience because they are constantly overcoming challenges en route to becoming the best version of themselves**. You need people around you to help with that, and competitive people realize the value of a good team. The members of the team are praised profusely in public when there is a victory. Likewise, win or lose the competitor never takes anything away from his opponent. If he wins the opponents put up a good fight, and if he lost, the opponent put up a better fight. But he’ll be back for another day.
6. The competitor never dwells on the past. Competitors never care about past laurels because for them, it was never about the winning. Non competitive people are always referencing what success they’ve had before because they care only about winning. Competitive people rarely reference past accomplishments unless it’s for a specific reason. Usually that reason is because people ask about it. But the competitor is always looking to the future and how much better he can become. Therefore, what he’s done doesn’t matter. All that matters if what he’s going to do and his attention in the present is focused on getting there.