---
layout: post
title: 5 Lessons From Growing Up In The Hood
date: 2015-10-30T00:00:00.000Z
comments: true
thumbnail: /img/posts/kidsinthehood.jpg
excerpt: 'A little background on what qualifies me to write this. I was born in the projects. For those of you familiar with various hoods around the country, I was born in the Hill District and lived there until I was 9. Life didn’t get much better at that point when I moved to an arguable worse public housing project across town called Northview Heights.. I lived there until I was 18 where I left for college. Since then, I’ve never lived there again and I’ve probably been back there less times than I can count on one hand.'
---


A little background on what qualifies me to write this. I was born in the projects. For those of you familiar with various hoods around the country, I was born in the Hill District and lived there until I was 9. Life didn’t get much better at that point when I moved to an arguable worse public housing project across town called Northview Heights.. I lived there until I was 18 where I left for college. Since then, I’ve never lived there again and I’ve probably been back there less times than I can count on one hand.

Some terminology for the uninformed masses. The official term for where I grew up is a “public housing project.” Another official term is “subsidized housing.” I’ve been in a lot of different housing projects across the country and they are all shit holes. In fact, most people refer to these places as the “ghetto” or the “hood.” That’s a correct description, but not all hoods and ghettos are public housing projects.

The words “hood”, “project” and “ghetto” will be used interchangeably. All projects are ghettos and hoods, but not all ghettos and hoods are projects. There are lots of shitty neighborhoods in the country—these are the ghettos and hoods—but you gotta be a special kind of broke to live in a place that the government subsidizes your rent and utilities so anyone can afford to live there.

In this instance, they all mean the same thing: a fucked up place that I would never want to live again. The projects destroy the future of most people. This is a gross over simplification because I’m not writing a sociological essay, but it goes a little like this: People promote ignorant ass values, have kids early, those kids get indoctrinated with those same ignorant values, and the cycle repeats itself for generations.

But I made it out. Survived is more like it because there are many things that can set you up to live in the hood forever. I could have got a girl pregnant as a teen, got arrested, or got killed. I managed to avoid all these things and flourish as an adult. No matter what I do, there are some things I learned from living in that environment that I believe give me an advantage. Obviously this isn’t book learning, but rather the type of learning you can only experience, survive and say to yourself, “Never again.”

I give these lessons to you. These are 5 lessons I learned from growing up in the projects.

1. **Good manners go a long way**. I fought a lot as a kid. That’s just par for the course growing up in the hood. I would have fought a lot more if it wasn’t for one simple phrase: “My bad.” For those of you that don’t speak hood, “My bad” is the equivalent of saying “I’m sorry.” You bump somebody in a crowd? ‘My bad’ goes a long way. Step on someones foot on a crowded bus? Dude might get mad, but you can cool it quick by just saying ‘My bad.’ Say someone a little too offensive that gets guys in the mood to fight? Just say ‘My bad’ and dial it down. It’s amazing what an apology can do to cool tempers because in the hood, violence is the reaction to a foul mood more often than not. In the hood you never know who [gives a fuck and who doesn’t](/2015/10/30/no-one-gives-a-shit/). While a guy might not necessarily be carrying a pistol, he might not care about catching an aggravated assault charge and beating the shit out of you. And that’s assuming you call the cops, which we generally avoided because there were always a pretty good chance there’d be even greater retaliation. Since I didn’t know who knew who or who gave a fuck about staying clear of the law, I figured out pretty quickly to address everyone with basic respect. Even if someone didn’t return the favor, it taught me to keep a cool head so I could avoid an unnecessary fight. I learned from direct experience with a very powerful negative feedback loop that **it’s better to treat people with respect and keep them calm than not**. A lot of people today don’t interact with people with basic respect because they’ve never been punched in the mouth by someone that felt disrespected.
2. **Safety and security is an illusion**. My house had doors and locks. That didn’t keep people from breaking in and stealing shit. School buses were places I remember fending for my life in fights more than anything pleasant. My mother kept food on the table, but her temper and physical abuse left me hurt as much some street fights. I never got comfortable thinking there was a such thing as safety. I remember some kids broke into my locker in the dead of winter and put my coat in the toilet. When I was 11 I got robbed by a crackhead at knife point for a calzone. I could name a bunch of incidents where something was taken from me or a situation where most people feel safe just didn’t exist for me, but I want to eventually make a point. I internalized something about the world at a very young age that makes me cautious with everything around me: nothing is ever safe. People will take stuff or try to hurt you, even if you didn’t think they ever would. Most people have trouble with this, and maybe it’s for the better, but nothing in this world is safely and securely yours. It can leave you, be stolen from you, betray you or outright decide to neglect you. But once you internalize this, you learn to value everything. I think this was the guy, but he’s a little too white.
3. **Money is not the root of all evil. Not having money is**. No one broke into my house, robbed me, or jumped me because they were bored from having too much money. I didn’t have bullet holes in my door because these got a little too heated in a civilized game of water polo. I’m not saying that people with money don’t do malicious shit, but I am ABSOLUTELY saying that they do less of it. This is because while there are some evil people in the world that just want to fuck shit up and cause harm, **most crime—and especially victim/violent crime—is committed for monetary reasons**. That drive by that claimed some innocent persons life? Probably got started over drug dealing turf. That armed robbery at the convenience store for 400 bucks that cost some dude his life? 400 bucks ain’t shit—unless you’re super broke. I once watched a pizza delivery boy get the shit beat out of him, his pizza and his money taken on Christmas Eve! That’s gotta be worth 100 bucks, tops. In fact, beating the shit out of food