---
layout: post
title: 6 Rules For Giving Advice
date: 2015-11-21T00:00:00.000Z
comments: true
thumbnail: /img/posts/giving-advice.png
excerpt: The majority of people are terrible at giving advice. There are lots of reasons for this. Here I hope to address a few of them in hopes of making the world a better place. This is written for the person giving the advice but people on the receiving end of advice would do well to remember these ideas as well.
recommendations: false
recommendations-heading:
recommendation-first-link:
recommendation-first-image:
recommendation-second-link:
recommendation-second-image:
recommendation-third-link:
recommendation-third-image:
---


The majority of people are terrible at giving advice. There are lots of reasons for this. Here I hope to address a few of them in hopes of making the world a better place. This is written for the person giving the advice but people on the receiving end of advice would do well to remember these ideas as well.

1. **Value your own time**. This is the most important rule. The rule that all of the other rules stem from. If you do not value your own time you will not see any urgency in helping a person deal with their personal problems. When you value your own time you desire to do things in the most efficient way possible. Especially things involving other people. This does not neccesitate a lack of empathy. It merely means you are not wasting time beating around the bush only to make a person feel better in the short term. Short term solutions to any problem ALWAYS take more time. Your advice may sound harsh, but because you will be focused on best use of your time and their time, it ultimately is better for everyone involved.
2. **Make sure you know what you’re talking about**. There are only two situtations your advice has merit: a) You have success overcoming a situation or problem, or b) You have failed miserably at overcoming a situation or problem and you are telling someone what not to do. Too often people give advice on things they don’t have direct experience with. Or even worse, they give advice on how to succeed in an area they have clearly failed in. If you haven’t lived through the situation and solved the problem, you have nothing to contribute to anyone on how to do it. This will solve 90 percent of problems with advice giving.
3. **Use the most direct and honest language**. Not only does this prevent misunderstanding, but it ensures that the person you’re giving advice to won’t waste your time asking more questions. When I listen to people give advice I’m always annoyed by how long it takes for them to get a point out because they want to beat around the bush. For example, “You should break up with that person” is a lot more direct than saying “Well, I’m not sure what you should do, but you have to do with this and that or the other and so on.” Inevitably the person will follow up with a question about why you have that opinion. This leads into the next step.
4. **Have valid arguments**. Advice, whether good or bad, is still just someone’s opinion. Even if that opinion is based on years of experience or observation, it’s still not an infallible rule. Therefore, when giving advice it is a lot more useful to the person you are trying to help if you can back up your position with reasonable arguments. Using the example of advising a person to get out a relationship, you don’t just tell someone to dump their girlfriend because you hate her. You explain that she’s unfaithful, rude and getting fat. It’s usually better if you can readily demonstrate everything you say. Your arguments may not be the most “correct”, but ideally you can demonstrate that you arrived at your recommended course of action by a thought process and not an emotional reaction. Logical reasoning is powerful, but ultimately people are emotional beings. This leads to the final piece of advice.
5. **Appeal to their emotions**. If it’s one thing I’ve learned about people is that we tend to do the thing that is easiest. Even when all the facts are hammered over your head, you’ll still do what is easiest. Anyone who actually has tried to get someone out of a shitty relationship or to lose weight knows all too well that conversations can usually be paraphrased the following way: “Yeah, I know such and such is bad for me. I need to stop.” And that’s ONLY if they agree with. If they don’t agree with you, then they probably aren’t seeking your advice in the first place. There may be a million reasons why a person needs to do something or take a certain path, but you greatly increase chances of getting them to oblige if you choose the arguments that appeal to their emotional nature. It’s different for everyone, but there are some general rules: a) People hate being publically humliated more than they hate being wrong. b) Public shame is stll the most powerful motivator in the world for behavior change. c) People fear losing a thing more than not gaining something. When in doubt, tailor your arguments to those angles. But use this power wisely. Anyone with sales experience will recognize this is for exactly what it is. In this case, I’m assuming you are using advice for constructive means. Don’t disappoint me.
6. **Say it Once**. If you’re doing everything else right, the person may still not come around. That’s fine. Remember, you value your time and by extension, you value theirs. That’s why you won’t entertain the same problem more than once if a clear solution to it has been given. Many people do the following: Do something, get a result unfavorable to their goal, ask for advice on how to fix it, do the exact same thing, ask for advice, lather, rinse, repeat. You can’t allow this. Even if it means being harsh. Once I tell a person to do a thing and we generally agree that this is the best course to follow, it’s a dead issue to me. If you tell someone keeps asking for advice on something and doesn’t take it, then you’re wasting your time giving advice to them. Furthermore, there will be a strain on the relationship because of the general annoyance you’ll feel at the other parties actions. I know this personally because I have felt such strain giving the same advice to those who will not heed it. Simply give the advice, back it up with sound arguments, touch their emotions, and be done with it after that. Refuse to discuss problem any further except to talk about how good the new advice is working.


Feel free to add anything I didn’t think of in the comments, but these 5 things will make your well meaning words have a much greater impact.